hi my name's Alex I'm one of the expert
IELTS teachers here at e2 language comm
and today I want to talk to you about
vocabulary IELTS and I'm gonna answer
three key questions for you here they
are one why do I need to build
vocabulary
- what vocabulary should I learn and
three how can I learn it let's start
with the first question why do I need to
build vocabulary this is a fair question
there are a lot of people out there
promising shortcuts and hacks but can
you really get a high IELTS score with
low vocabulary level well in writing
task 1 - and speaking your vocabulary
makes up 25% of your score so a quarter
of your score goes to vocabulary and
these parts of the IELTS test are marked
by human raters so it's very difficult
to trick a human rater into thinking
your vocabulary is better than it really
is let's look at IELTS writing I'm gonna
show you a typical task - topic and I
want you to think about your own current
language ability and I mean current
because your language in your vocabulary
today I'm not the same as they're going
to be tomorrow or next month or next
year here's a typical essay question
with deforestation urban development and
illegal hunting many animal species are
becoming endangered and some are even
facing extinction do you think it is
important to protect animals what can be
done to deal with this problem
so when reading this our students a
native language would already be
thinking about their vocabulary library
what do I know about this topic
what relevant or appropriate language
can i generate so for something like
illegal hunting they might know a
synonym is poaching becoming endangered
what's another way to say that dying out
facing extinction how about on the verge
of extinction and what about the ideas
do you think it's important to protect
animals why what can be done to deal
with this problem
for instance could we use sanctuaries
could we increase penalties for poaching
implement captive breeding programs you
can see that a rich vocabulary is a huge
benefit here so that brings us to IELTS
speaking let's stick with the animals
theme here and look at this
typical speaking part to the topic talk
so you could be asked anything really
but you might be asked to describe an
animal that you're interested in that's
a pretty easy topic right but how
confident are you that you could talk
for two minutes
about an animal that you're interested
in you might want to talk about an
elephant for example so it's big and
gray but what's this what's this do you
know the word tusks do you know the word
trunk it lives for a long time but some
more interesting vocabulary it's a wide
roaming herbivore it's known for its
intelligence it lives in a close-knit
matriarchal society this kind of
language is very nice very topic
specific but very useful when doing the
IELTS speaking test how about another
animal a tiger do you know what this is
this these and this striped tail poor
claws fangs those are just some of the
words that you could use the point is
you need to be ready for anything when
it comes to IELTS writing and speaking
on to IELTS reading and listening let's
consider IELTS reading first now in
academic reading you get three pretty
big texts one two three and you probably
won't know every word in fact there are
often words that even native speakers
don't know in the reading texts and it's
not essential to know 100% of the words
when you're reading but you do need a
certain percentage to be able to
understand the text this is called
lexical coverage researchers vary but
most estimate that learners can
understand a text when 95 to 98% of the
words are known and interestingly it's a
little bit lower for listening
comprehension so it looks
like this you need to know this amount
of words to be able to understand a text
now it looks daunting but the principle
to keep in mind here is that the more
vocabulary you know the better your
language will be and the more you'll be
able to communicate and also comprehend
so that answers the first question of
why and leads us to the second question
what vocabulary do I need to know there
are quite a few lists of words and you
can download some of these on our
website at 82 language calm but I'm
really interested in IELTS reading and I
wanted to find out what vocabulary in
particular do you need to know to
understand a text in IELTS reading so I
took a bunch of reading text and ran a
bit of an analysis on them and this is
what I found around 80% of the words in
the reading text came from the first
2,000 words in English that is the 2,000
most frequent words used in English and
the good news is that you probably
already know heaps of these if not all
of them they're words like the good bad
idea spend in other words of that nature
about 5.5 percent came from the academic
words list which is a list of 570 words
commonly found in academic texts so
these are words like research theory
initial acquire valid so what about the
others well these are words that were
either higher than the first 2,000 words
in English but realistically are you
gonna print out and learn 4,000 5,000 up
to 10,000 or 15,000 words it's not
really so let's consider these words
just less common words or technical and
topic-specific vocabulary in an analysis
of a few IELTS reading texts about
animals these are the kinds of words
that we see habitat predators livestock
foraging captive so this is the basic
breakdown of a typical IELTS reading
text so when it
to the first two thousand words and the
academic words list these are easily
accessible and you can find them here on
our website but for the other vocabulary
you need a bit of a system and that's
what we're going to talk about next so
just a quick summary about what
vocabulary you need to know you need the
most frequent words in English you
should know the academic word list and
also you need to build topic-specific
vocabulary so the big question is how
can I do that how can I learn new
vocabulary I've mentioned word lists a
couple of times and they do have their
place but how helpful is it to download
a list of words and look at it actually
you need to take those words and make
them your own you need to see them again
and again you need to integrate them
into your own vocabulary so yes a list
of words is nice to have but learning
vocabulary needs a little bit more than
that we need to think about deliberate
and incidental learning so deliberate
learning so deliberate learning is when
your full attention is on learning the
vocabulary he might be just looking it
up in a dictionary writing out the
meaning in your book or doing drills in
class or using flashcards and your aim
with deliberate learning is to learn the
vocabulary this is actually really
useful so even if you do have a
vocabulary list you should write it out
by hand into your own system in your own
format so in a live class we spend a bit
of time doing this working on the
deliberate learning of vocabulary and
you can do it alone but it's much easier
when someone else has prepared all those
activities for you right this brings us
the incidental learning incidental
learning happens when you are not trying
to learn the vocabulary you actually
focused on something else so you might
be just reading the newspaper or
listening to a podcast or perhaps
reading an article in order to write a
summary of it so in this case you're
just accidentally or incidentally
bumping into the vocabulary and this is
another key part of remembering and
incorporating vocab into your own
language now a key point here
input if you're gonna meet familiar
words in new context you need to be
reading and listening to a huge range of
language in a traditional language
course you have been limited by time
when it comes to this kind of extensive
exposure to language but these days
we've got the internet so the whole
world is at your fingertips and the job
of a good language course or language
teacher online is to curate some useful
resources for you so once you've got the
words that you need to know your teacher
can direct you to an article a video a
podcast where you can meet that word
over and over so of course you need both
types of learning both deliberate and
incidental you need to learn it on
purpose and then you need to
accidentally bump into it
over and over so at eetu we've built
this into a kind of vocabulary system
that we call grow G our W so let's
consider this acronym as the basis for
your vocab learning G stands for gather
this is the deliberate part of the
learning where you collect or gather
information about the word so you might
get the meaning the translation into
your language the pronunciation related
words and collocations as well as
examples so you should gather this
information into a system it might be a
flashcard system it might be a
vocabulary journal it might be a list of
words on your phone so this is just the
very first step to learn the words you
need to review so you need to see the
words hear the words write the words a
lot so why do we need to review well
this comes down to your memory and
something called the forgetting curve so
imagine on day zero when you first learn
something you've got it you've got
hundred percent of the meaning you can
remember the translation you've used it
in a sentence you know how to spell it
but day after days you can see from day
one to three you start to forget quite a
lot quite quickly if you review a day
one notice that your retention goes back
up to a hundred percent
and then the forgetting curve slows down
a little bit you forget a bit less if
you review then on day three view on day
six you can see that you are retaining a
lot more information so that's why it's
important to keep coming back to the
vocabulary don't just look at it once
don't download a list of vocab and
glanced at it because you're never gonna
remember it like that you have to review
review review so use flashcards spelling
test gut feels dictation and seek out
lots of input o stands for own this
means you've got to make the vocabulary
your own write it say it read it
incorporate it into your active
vocabulary and the last one stands for
wonder so what this means is that now
you go out into the wild and you try to
find that word in its native habitat you
might find it in the newspaper in a
podcast on a TV show in conversation
with a friend so explore it in the wild
read and listen to a wide range of media
and as you're doing that you might be
able to bump into new words and you can
start the whole process again gather
review own wander and of course we can
help you with this you know IELTS
academic and general courses on any
language comm we incorporate vocabulary
into the self-study course and our live
classes and you can also check out our
course tests ready on e to school comm
which focuses on vocabulary and
collocations building sign up for free
at both places let's recap learning
vocabulary is important you can't trick
an examiner you can't trick a reading
and a listening test
you should learn high frequency and
topic-specific vocabulary and use the
acronym G ro W to grow your vocab gather
information about it review because
repetition means retention on your new
vocab personalize it and activate it and
then find the vocab in new contexts as
you wander around
we can help get you started with the
IELTS topic toolkit on our blog follow
the link below for topic 1 which is all
about animals in the toolkit you'll find
20 words with definitions and example
sentences you'll find speaking questions
essay topics plus a sample essay as well
as extra resources things like podcasts
articles and videos don't forget to
subscribe like comment and share this
with any of your friends that are
preparing for IELTS and come and join us
at eetu language comm today thanks for
watching I hope that was helpful and
tell me in the comments about your tips
for learning vocabulary
[Music]